Two angles are supplementary. One angle measures 47 degrees. What is the measure of the other angle?
A rectangle has a length of 12 cm and a width of 5 cm. What is its perimeter and area?
A right triangle has legs of length 3 cm and 4 cm. What is the length of the hypotenuse?
A straight line is intersected by another line, forming two adjacent angles. One angle is 3 times the size of the other. Find both angles.
A circle has a radius of 7 cm. What is its circumference?

An isosceles triangle has two equal sides of 10 cm each and a base of 12 cm. What is the height of the triangle drawn from the apex to the base, and what is its area?
Triangle ABC is right-angled at C with AC = 5 cm and BC = 12 cm. The altitude from C meets AB at H. Find the lengths AH, HB, and CH.
In triangle ABC, angle A = 55 degrees and angle B = 70 degrees. A line from vertex C meets side AB at right angles at point D. What is the size of angle ACD?
In triangle ABC, the angle bisector from A meets BC at D. Given AB = 6 cm, AC = 9 cm, and BC = 10 cm, find the lengths BD and DC.
A tangent and a secant are drawn from an external point P to a circle. The tangent touches the circle at T, and the secant passes through the circle meeting it at points A and B (with A between P and B). Given PT = 8 cm and PA = 4 cm, find the length PB.
In parallelogram ABCD, the diagonal AC is drawn. A point E lies on diagonal AC such that AE = 1/3 AC. A line through E parallel to AB meets AD at F. Find the ratio AF : FD.

From an external point P, two secants are drawn to a circle. The first secant meets the circle at A and B (A closer to P), and the second meets it at C and D (C closer to P). Given PA = 4 cm, AB = 11 cm, and PC = 3 cm, find CD. Then find the length of the tangent from P to the circle.
Two circles intersect at points A and B. A common external tangent touches the first circle at P and the second circle at Q. The line AB extended meets PQ at R. Prove or find: given that RP = 12 cm and RQ = 20 cm, find the length RB, and hence RA.
A circle with centre O has radius 13 cm. A chord AB of length 24 cm is drawn. A smaller circle with centre O' is drawn internally tangent to the large circle and also tangent to chord AB at its midpoint M. Find the radius of the smaller circle.
Points D, E, F are the feet of the altitudes from A, B, C respectively in acute triangle ABC. The orthocenter is H. Prove by angle-chasing that angle BHC = 180° − angle A, and use this to find angle BHC when angle A = 68°.
Triangle ABC has AB = 7 cm, BC = 8 cm, CA = 9 cm. A circle is drawn with BC as diameter. This circle intersects AB at point D and AC at point E. Find DE.
Let ABC be a triangle with angle BAC = 60 degrees. Let AP bisect angle BAC and let BQ bisect angle ABC, with P on BC and Q on AC. If AB + BP = AQ + QB, what are the angles of the triangle? (2001 IMO Shortlist Problems/G8)
In a triangle ABC satisfying AB + BC = 3AC, the incircle has centre I and touches the sides AB and BC at D and E, respectively. Let K and L be the symmetric points of D and E with respect to I. Prove that the quadrilateral ACKL is cyclic. (2005 IMO Shortlist Problems/G1)
Consider an acute-angled triangle ABC. Let P be the foot of the altitude of triangle ABC issuing from the vertex A, and let O be the circumcenter of triangle ABC. Assume that angle C = angle B + 30 degrees. Prove that angle A + angle COP < 90 degrees. (2001 IMO Shortlist Problems/G2)
Let A, B, C, D be fore distinct points on a line, in that order. The circles with diameter AC and BD intersect at X and Y. The line XY meets BC at Z. Let P be a point on the line XY other than Z. The line CP intersects the circle with diameter AC at C and M, and the line BP intersects the circle with diameter BD at B and N. Prove that the lines AM, DN, XY are concurrent. (1995 IMO Problems/Problem 1)
